doc: add 2026 user survey questions (#387)
nodejs/next-10: surveys/2026-06 users/2026 user survey questions.md

    * pnpm
    * volta
    * yarn v1
    * yarn v2+
1. How do you manage the package manager for your project? (drop-down list)
    * Containers
    * One version installed globally for all projects
    * A tool to pick a specific version per project (e.g. asdf, Corepack, …).
    * Other: (free response)
1. Which of the following best reflects your role regarding Node.js? (drop-down list)
    * Application developer (backend server authors)
    * Application developer (Frontend)
    * Application developer (fullstack (front end and back end))
    * Application developer (tools authors)
    * Application operator (Service and infrastructure providers)
    * Direct end-user (Users who run tools themselves)
    * Library & package authors (Users who write libraries and packages to be included on other applications)
    * Node.js core maintainers (Developers working directly on Node.js, individuals participating in Working Groups)
1. What operating system is your **local** development environment? (drop-down list)
    * Android
    * Linux with Docker
    * Linux/Unix
    * macOS
    * macOS with Docker
    * Serverless
    * Windows
    * Windows with Docker
    * Windows with WSL

>     * Other

Author: ```suggestion
    * Other: (free response)
```

1. What is your Operating System in which you are running Node.js in **production**? (drop-down list)
    * Android
    * Linux with Docker
    * Linux/Unix
    * macOS
    * macOS with Docker
    * Serverless
    * Windows
    * Windows with Docker
    * Windows with WSL
    
    * Don't know

>     * Other

Author: ```suggestion
    * Other: (free response)
```

# Next-10 2026 User Survey Questions

## About you

1. Where do you currently live? (drop-down list of countries)

> 1. What is your primary language? (drop-down list)

Reviewer: Are the drop-down options listed anywhere? Just want to verify that new languages were added to the list following feedback from the 2025 survey.

Author: No. Which ones were missing?

Author: @ZacTanner 👀

Reviewer: I suggest adding Ukranian, Polish, Dutch, Bangla, and Swedish. The write-ins for these outnumbered some of the options listed in the 2025 survey's drop-down list.

    * B-Corporation
    * Charity or Non-profit
    * Company (For-profit)
    * Government
    * Non-Governmental Organization (NGO)
    * Self-employed (Freelance, Sole Propritorship, etc)
    * Unemployed
    * Other
1. If working in a company, in which sector does your company operate? (drop-down list)
    * Agricultural tech
    * Communication Services
    * Energy
    * Financials
    * Health Care
    * Industrials
    * Information Technology
    * Materials
    * Real Estate
    * Utilities
    * Other

    If answered org type (and not "Unemployed") or answered company sector:
    1. What is the number of employees/member of the organization you are part of? (drop-down list)
      * 1 to 9
      * 10 to 99
      * 100 to 499
      * 500 to 999
      * 1000+

## Node.js features

1. Which of the following new stable features? (select all that apply)
    - [ ] Diagnostic APIs (`--cpu-prof`, `--heap-prof`, etc…)
    - [ ] Dotenv (`--env-file`)
    - [ ] Import attributes
    - [ ] Permission model
    - [ ] Task runner (--run)
    - [ ] Test runner (node:test)
    - [ ] Test Snapshot
    - [ ] TypeScript support
    - [ ] Watch mode (--watch)

>     - [ ] WebSocket client

Author: I'm not sure this is exhaustive

Reviewer 2: we probably should update this, we could use AI to scan latest changelogs.md in node core and get the latest promptions

Author: I tried that, and it was friggin useless. It listed 7 or 8 things; 3 of them were wrong (the others I already have) 😩

I expected it would do well at this

> 1. Are you using the following unstable (experimental or active development) features of Node.js? (select all that apply)

Author: I went thru the API docs and added all the experimental and active-dev features that were **introduced** in 24.x+. I _think_ I got everything.

I also moved the ones that were here last time (to "new stable" above).

    - [ ] Async Hooks module (`node:async_hooks`)
    - [ ] Config File (`node.config.json`)
    - [ ] Foreign Function Interface (`node:ffi`)
    - [ ] FS FileHandle Pull
    - [ ] FS FileHandle Writer
    - [ ] FS Utf8Stream (`node:fs.Utf8Stream`)
    - [ ] Glob (`fs.glob`)
    - [ ] Module findPackageJSON
    - [ ] Module Loader / Customization hooks - async (`module.register`)
    - [ ] Module Loader / Customization hooks - sync (`module.registerHooks`)
    - [ ] Iterable Streams (`node:stream/iter`)
    - [ ] QUIC/HTTP3
    - [ ] Require(ESM)
    - [ ] Shadow Realm
    - [ ] Single Executable Application
    - [ ] Startup Snapshot
    - [ ] SQLite
    - [ ] Test Coverage
    - [ ] Test Module Mocking
    - [ ] Test Watch Mode
    - [ ] V8 SyncHeapProfileHandle
    - [ ] VM Modules
    - [ ] WASI
    - [ ] WorkerThread locks
    - [ ] Web Storage
    - [ ] Zstd

> 1. Which of the current Technical Priorities are important to you? (select all that apply)

Author: Where do we get this?

Reviewer 2: its documented somewhere in node core repo

Reviewer 2: https://github.com/nodejs/node/blob/main/doc/contributing/technical-priorities.md

Author: > 656dd5d · 2 years ago

😬

Who owns or drives this? Is that us? 😳

Reviewer 2: TSC I guess not us

Author: This seems too outdated to include? Shall I poke the TSC to update it?

1. Do you use Alpine builds?
    * Yes
    * No

    1. Should Alpine support be official?
        * Yes
        * No
1. What capabilities do you feel Node.js is lacking? (free response)
1. Are there any key features that you think should be added to Node.js? (free response)
1. Do you encounter any recurring issues when using Node.js that you would like to share with us? (free response)

## Dev environment

> 1. With which regularity does you/your company updates Node.js versions? (drop-down list)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. With what regularity do you/your company update Node.js versions? (drop-down list)
```

    * Evergreen (as soon as a new version is available)
    * Evergreen (delayed to await patches, etc)
    * Monthly
    * Quarterly
    * Semi-annually
    * Annually
    * Longer
    * When forced (e.g. AWS stops supporting your ancient version)
1. How long have you been using Node.js? (drop-down list)
    * <1 year
    * 1–4 years
    * 5–10 years
    * >10 years
1. How do you get your Node executables? (select all that apply)
    - [ ] Building Node.js from Source
    - [ ] Docker Image
    - [ ] Downloading binaries directly from Nodejs.org
    - [ ] Using a system package manager: apt-get, brew, dnf, yum …
    - [ ] Using package managers like npm or yarn and install Node.js as a package
    - [ ] Using the official installer
    - [ ] With a Node.js version manager: nvm, n, nave, nvs, volta, mise, asdf, etc.
    - [ ] Other

    If selected "With a Node.js version manager":

    1. Which node version manager do you use? (drop-down list)
1. Which version of Node.js are you running? (main one)
    * Older than 18.x
    * 18.x
    * 19.x
    * 20.x
    * 21.x
    * 22.x
    * 23.x
    * 24.x
    * 25.x

>     * 26.x

Author: Do we need this question? (I think we discussed excluding it, but I don't remember if we decided)

Reviewer: I think we can remove this one. Responses won't be particularly insightful or useful for linking to other survey items.

Reviewer 2: yeah we can see downloads so its not needed. Id ask if they are aware of the ESP program https://nodejs.org/en/about/eol#commercial-support

Author: Extra Sensory Powers programme? Sign me up 🦹‍♂️

    * bun
    * npm
    * pnpm
    * volta
    * yarn v1
    * yarn v2+
1. How do you manage the package manager for your project? (drop-down list)
    * Containers
    * One version installed globally for all projects
    * A tool to pick a specific version per project (e.g. asdf, Corepack, …).
    * Other: (free response)
1. Which of the following best reflects your role regarding Node.js? (drop-down list)
    * Application developer (backend server authors)
    * Application developer (Frontend)
    * Application developer (fullstack (front end and back end))
    * Application developer (tools authors)
    * Application operator (Service and infrastructure providers)
    * Direct end-user (Users who run tools themselves)
    * Library & package authors (Users who write libraries and packages to be included on other applications)
    * Node.js core maintainers (Developers working directly on Node.js, individuals participating in Working Groups)
1. What operating system is your **local** development environment? (drop-down list)
    * Android
    * Linux with Docker
    * Linux/Unix
    * macOS
    * macOS with Docker
    * Serverless
    * Windows
    * Windows with Docker

>     * Windows with WSL

Author: Should this also be in the production question below?

Reviewer: Yes, response options for both these questions should be the same

>     * Other

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    *Don't know 
    * Other
```

Author: I deliberately excluded "Don't know". They will know the OS of their own laptop.

1. What is your Operating System in which you are running Node.js in **production**? (drop-down list)
    * Android
    * Linux with Docker
    * Linux/Unix
    * macOS
    * macOS with Docker
    * Serverless
    * Windows

>     * Windows with Docker

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * Windows with Docker
    * Windows with WSL
    
```

Author: @marco-ippolito 👀 thoughts? is it applicable?

Reviewer 2: yes

    * Don't know
    * Other

> 1. What is your architecture in which you are running Node.js in **Production**? (drop-down list)

Author: ```suggestion
1. What is your architecture in which you are running Node.js in **production**? (drop-down list)
```

    * Arm

>     * x86

Reviewer 2: we dropped x86 so we can rempve it

Author: ```suggestion
```

    * x64
    * Don't know
    * Other
1. What is your primary use case for Node.js? (drop-down list)
    * Application server

>     * Endpoint server

Author: What else should we include here?

Reviewer 2: what is an endpoint server

Author: Like an [RPC server](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Remote_procedure_call) (REST, GQL, etc)

Reviewer 2: I never heard "endpoint server" 😅
Anyways I remember we already asked this question in another form

Author: Found it—it was previously multiple choice. I think that's maybe better than pick one?

https://github.com/nodejs/next-10/blob/main/surveys/2025-04/questions.md?plain=1#L61-L74

Author: ```suggestion
1. What are your primary use-cases for Node.js? (select all that apply)
    - [ ] APIs for Microservices
    - [ ] APIs for Other
    - [ ] APIs for Serverless
    - [ ] Automation/scripting
    - [ ] Cli tools
    - [ ] Desktop applications (e.g. electron-based applications)
    - [ ] Full stack (Next.js, Remix, etc...)
    - [ ] Http proxy
    - [ ] IoT/Edge devices
    - [ ] Mobile applications
    - [ ] Testing
    - [ ] Tooling used to build front end applications
    - [ ] Other: (free response)
```

1. Do you write and test your code to run on other server side runtimes in addition to Node.js? (drop-down list)
    * yes

>     * no

Author: ```suggestion
    * Yes
    * No
```

> 1. Which frameworks/ecosystems do you use?

Reviewer 2: Do we really care?

Author: Which question are you asking about? (there are 2 displayed in the comment)

> 1. Do you write and test your code to run on other server side runtimes in addition to Node.js?

Yes, I think we care?

It had 1 vote from the summit.

> 1. Which frameworks/ecosystems do you use?

Maybe? It was a suggestion from the summit. It had 2 votes.

Reviewer 2: The second one

Author: It wasn't my suggestion, but I think it'd be interesting.

    - [ ] Adonis (various)
    - [ ] Blitz.js (React)
    - [ ] Meteor (various)
    - [ ] Next.js (React)
    - [ ] Nuxt (Vue)
    - [ ] Remix (React)
    - [ ] SolidStart (SolidJS)
    - [ ] SvelteKit (Svelte)
    - [ ] TanStack Start (React)
    - [ ] Something else: (free response)

## Node.js maintenance

> Node.js is maintained by volunteers, mostly in their free time.

1. How does your organization invest in Node.js ? (select all that apply)
    - [ ] Sponsors time to work on open-source

>     - [ ] Donates (financially) to Node.js or OpenJS (the parent charity of Node.js)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - [ ] Donates (financially) to Node.js or OpenJS (the parent charity of Node.js)
    - [ ] Not applicable / I do not work for an organization
    - [ ] Not applicable / My organization does not invest in Node.js
    
```

Author: Can't they just not answer to affectively tell us the same thing?

Author: @ZacTanner 👀

Reviewer: Not really. Not answering this gets classified as a skip or null. We can't infer either of the two options I added if the question isn't answered.

# Next-10 2026 User Survey Questions

## About you

1. Where do you currently live? (drop-down list of countries)

> 1. What is your primary language? (drop-down list)

Author: ```suggestion
1. What is your primary language? (drop-down list)
    - … others from last year
    - Bangla
    - Dutch
    - Polish
    - Swedish
```
